To practical engineering management.
This is
Practical Engineering Management 102.
I'm Ryan Burgess, I'm a software
engineering manager currently at Netflix.
I've been a manager for
now I think it's just over ten years
now it's gone by pretty quickly.
I'm what you would call thrown
in as an accidental manager.
I was at a startup called Evernote.
I was a lead front end engineer
walked in one day and they're like,
you are now managing the team.
I didn't hate it,
I was definitely up for the challenge.
I had been doing a lot of somewhat
leadership on the technical
side of mentoring and things like that
throughout my career at various points.
I worked at agencies where
I was working with clients.
So I did really enjoy a lot
of the people side of things.
So it was I was up for it,
I was up excited about the challenge, and
I stuck with it.
When I joined Netflix,
I lead UI engineering team.
That was called it our
Acquisition UI team,
which was building a lot of the sign-up
flows for iOS, Android, web, and TV.
We did a ton of AB testing to optimize,
make sure that it was really
great user experience.
And then most recently, I'm in what we
call our Productivity Engineering Org,
and that's where I focus on trying
to make more centralized tooling and
infrastructure to make other engineers
across the company more productive.
So it's really just making their
lives easier to ship production,
our product code out to what our
consumers are now using on Netflix.
You can find me on Twitter it is Twitter,
just just wanna say that @burgessdyan.
I am on LinkedIn at Ryan Burgess.
So yes connect with me on either platform.
I still I'm not on Twitter as
much lately but I still go there.
I'm also on a podcast,
mentioned Jem Young teaching.
I'm the practical engineering manager 101,
him and I are both on this podcast
it's been long running, how many of you
have heard of it before show of hands?
All right, quite a few hands awesome
let's get to here, for those of you who
haven't listened it's really a casual
podcast with a group of panelists.
We have guests and regular panelists where
we're talking about various technologies,
career development.
It's not just front end, we've kind
of covered a variety of topics and
we're continuing to do that.
So if you haven't checked it out,
please do.
All right, so
hopefully some of you have watched
Practical Engineering Management 101.
Jem Young, which I've mentioned,
he covers that topic really well.
He is also at Netflix as
a software engineering manager,
and he's on Twitter @Jimyoung so
follow him there.
What Jim covered in 101 is really
what I like to think about is their
very early stages you may not even
be a manager it's like really just
like thinking about what is management?
Do I wanna do that?
Is that something that I
could see myself doing?
And so he does a really good job
covering the path to leadership.
Thinking about it, what does that entail?
Why might you wanna do it?
And maybe why you might not want to do it.
He does a very good job
going through that.
And then really just
understanding the role.
What does it mean to be
an engineering manager?
What are things that you
need to think about?
And then really thinking
about interviewing.
How do you get that first job?
And then you're in that first job,
what does that look like?
What's that first 30 days?
How do you prepare yourself for
just diving deep into management?
So he really set you up on a path
to that early days and in 102,
I kind of wanna pick up from there,
as like you've been in the role a bit,
you've started to get
a little bit of footing.
And so I wanna cover things like,
all right, you have a lay of the land you
somewhat understand what you're doing,
what your team's doing.
And so how do you help set
your team up for success?
So we'll go into that and thinking about
ways in which you can help your team out.
And then we'll go really deep on hiring.
Hiring I think is one of the most
important things as a manager.
You got to build a team.
You wanna have a strong team
that's able to deliver.
That's what you wanna be doing, and you
may not hire right away, sometimes you do.
I like when you do hire early in your
career because you're taking over a team,
it's like you wanna be able to understand
what the makeup of the team is and
hire someone.
But at some point in time,
you will be hiring.
I guarantee it, someone will leave
the team or your team needs to grow.
You take on some new initiative.
It's gonna happen.
Then another point that I
wanna cover is partnerships.
You need to really think about building
strong partnerships with other teams,
partners on efforts that you're working
on, you are trying to connect a lot of
the dots for your team, so building
strong partnerships is really important.
I think one of the most important things
when you're managing a team is being able
to give feedback.
There's lot of different
types of feedback and
how you're delivering that with your team.
But also, how do you receive feedback?
I think that's an important aspect, too,
is being able to effectively receive
feedback and inviting your team to
give you feedback is really important.
And then we'll dive into change
management and what that's like.
I think that's one thing that I personally
didn't feel like I was prepared for
before diving into management and so
I'm kind of hoping that we can
give some insights into that.
So who's this course for?
I don't think it's just for
engineering managers.
I see this as a course for an engineer who
just wants to have more insights into what
management is doing, there's a lot of
valuable skills like giving feedback,
I hope you're giving feedback
to your peers or your manager.
There's a lot great tips and
that's what I wanna cover.
It could be like I said,
an engineer thinking about
management that should help them.
It could be for tech leads and
of course the engineering manager.
So my goals here for
the course is I wanna try and
help provide some strategies for
navigating challenging situations,
help prepare for things that
you may have not thought about.
And equip you with effective tools and
things to just make your life
a little bit easier as a manager.
And then I'll share some valuable
perspectives on my thoughts on management.
We'll cover some scenarios
where how I might approach it.
I'm gonna call on Jem for
his perspectives as well.
And throughout the course, I don't wanna
stand up here and talk all day, so
we're gonna do various things to try and
give you more different
perspectives on management.
So we'll have some exercises and
we'll cover some things in an exercise.
But also go through some
scenarios which I had mentioned,
like maybe it's how to give feedback and
this is where I'll rely on Jem.
Him and I will go doing some back and
forth and go through some conversations.
So you're getting some insights into what
some of those conversations might actually
look like.
And then I will have another part
where I will call on ask a manager.
I'll definitely be leaning on Jem.
But I'm also leaning on
you all in the audience.
I wanna hear your thoughts.
I think it's really important
to lean on others as a manager,
there's no right way to do something.
There's wrong ways.
But there are definitely ways in which you
wanna get other people's perspectives.
And I often do this where, hey,
I'm dealing with the situation,
how have you thought about that?
How would you approach the situation?
And so I think that's really valuable
as a manager to think about that.
You can definitely read books and
gain a lot of insights that way, but
sometimes it's also just asking
your peers and getting insights.
So that's what I wanna try and
leverage in this course.
All right, before we go into
setting your team up for success,
I wanna set why management is difficult.
I mean, it's very rewarding.
It's exciting, I enjoy it.
I love the challenges, but it's a lot
different compared to being a software
engineer and it's a lot less tangible.
And so even teaching a course on it, it's
not like I can give you an exercise like
code this thing and
you can see if it works or it doesn't.
Like I said, it's not as tangible.
Every situation is different.
I've dealt with many times where even
hiring someone or giving someone feedback
even for the same exact thing, it's so
unique and different every time.
There's always some sort of nuance, and so
that is very different from
even software engineering.
I know there's nuances, but with
management it's a lot different that way.
It requires many skills, oftentimes people
will say you wear many hats, it's true.
There's times where you are a recruiter,
you're looking for
someone to join the team there's times
where you're a project management.
You're leading a project or maybe
you're even playing the role of product
manager where you're trying to think about
the strategy of a project or a product and
what your team should be focused on.
Maybe you're even a therapist,
listen to someone,
vent about a problem that they're
having or helping coach someone.
There's just a lot of different
hats that you wear as a manager.
And those hats aren't given to you for
a week long or
a day long thing,
it could happen every other hour.
You are constantly context switching,
which can be difficult.
It's not the same as being
heads down coding something.
You are context switching
a lot more as a manager.
You also need to be adaptable, flexible.
There's a lot of things that are changing.
There might be new technologies
that your team needs to adapt.
Maybe there's new challenges,
maybe the business is changing.
Maybe you have to like completely
pivot on some priorities.
If you need to be flexible and be able to
help your team deal with those changes.
You're also dealing with people,
right, we're not dealing with code,
we're dealing with people.
So there's definitely interpersonal
challenges that come along with that.
I personally love that part of it.
I think that's what probably
brings me the most joy as being
a manager is dealing with people.
And it's different, it's definitely
a challenge each and every time, Mark.
>> From the developer's side,
management work seemed very easy, but
after going through Jem's 101 course,
I've changed my perspective.
>> That is a really good insight.
I'm glad that they took that
away too because Jem and
I've joked about that times too.
As Jem actually reported to me for
a while before moving into management.
And he so jokingly, nicely, put it
he's like, he didn't know what I did.
And it's true, it's like does he
really do anything as a manager?
And it's like, he's in meetings.
I talk to him on a one-on-one.
Maybe see him leading a project or
something, but what does a manager do?
And it's hard to really know that.
And so I'm actually really happy that
that was a takeaway in the 101 course.
It's given you a little
more insights into that.
It often requires experience, and
I don't want this to shy someone away as
that you need to have experience as a
manager, to be a manager, because clearly
in Jem's course on 101, we talk about
how do you actually become a manager?
And so Jem even talked about speaking
to some of the experiences that you
have as an engineer or life experiences.
It requires pulling
from those experiences.
And even as a manager, I'm constantly
gaining more experiences over
my ten years that I am
constantly leveraging.
So that's what I really mean by
experience is it definitely helps you.
It could be maybe as an engineer,
you're leading a project.
Maybe you're helping with interviews,
that's experience and that is helpful.
I hope you're giving feedback to people,
that's experience.
And you learn all these things and
it definitely helps you as a manager.
It's hard to measure, like I said,
Gem didn't know what I did.
He's like, what is he doing?
And it's true, it's when I think of myself
as an engineer, I might work on a feature.
I ship it, hopefully there was no bugs.
People are happy with it,
they're using it.
You can even get nice data
on how it's performing,
how quick it's loading, or
how many people are using it.
That's awesome.
There's a lot more tangible
metrics on that.
As a manager, there's days,
I don't even know what I did.
I'm like, cool, my team shipped that.
I'm excited for them.
What did I do?
I know I helped in some way, but
it's hard, it's not as tangible.
So hopefully I didn't scare you away.
All these challenges, they're hard but
they're good, I love them.
And that's why I've
continually been a manager.